Hello and welcome back.
In this video, we'll be talking about the project that will be working on throughout this course.
Like I said earlier, if you remember, we will be simulating.
A card game at playing cards game and this game, we call it Mac's Hand Wins, it's a hypothetical game,
it's not a real game, but this game was basically designed to strengthen our understanding of object
oriented programming.
So what I want to do in this video is I want to give you an overview of this game.
How is this game played?
What are the rules of the game so that you have a clear understanding of the game?
So when time comes for you to design and implement the code for this game, you'll be able to do it.
OK, essentially this game, like any other playing cards game, has a deck of cards.
The deck of cards here for the sake of this problem is going to be 52 cards.
So basically we have only one deck of cards, one traditional deck of cards with 52 cards.
Now, these are the rules of the game.
You have a bunch of players in this case, we have three players, we have Adam, we have Alice and
we have Bob.
These are the three players that we have.
Each player is going to draw two cards from the pile from the deck of cards.
So Adam gets two clubs, six diamonds.
Alice draws her to course, she gets eight hearts and then Jack Spades.
And then finally, Bob draws two cards.
He gets the ace of spades and five of hearts.
OK, so simply each player will draw two cards from the pile.
Now, this is a simulation of around.
This is just one round.
The winner of the round is going to be the player who has the strongest card in his hand.
So after each of the players draws two cards, each player will reveal their hand to the rest of the
players so that all the players can see all the cards.
And then the player with the strongest cards wins the round, wins this round.
How do we define the strongest card?
This is the question.
How do we define the strongest card?
So given two cards, how can we say that one card is stronger than the other?
Here are the rules.
If you have two cards with different ranks, what is a rank, a rank is the number that appears on the
card.
So let's say, for example, we're comparing six diamonds with four clubs.
If we want to figure out which one is the stronger card, then the six Dimond's is the stronger card
because six is a larger number than four.
And since we have two cards with different numbers, the card with the higher number is the card that
is stronger.
That is very easy.
The tricky part is if you have two cards that have the same number or the same rank on them, this is
when things get a little bit trickier.
If you are a card player, you pretty much know the rules of the suits.
But if not, let me explain.
If you have two cards with the same number on them, then instead of comparing numbers, you start comparing
suits, meaning the spades is stronger than hearts, and then hearts is stronger than diamonds and diamonds
is stronger than clubs.
So let's say you have three of hearts and three of clubs.
Which one is stronger?
It's going to be three of hearts because Hearts is a stronger suit than clubs.
What if you have ace of spades and the ace of hearts, for example?
In this case, the ace of spades is stronger than the house of Cards because spades is stronger than
hearts.
And one thing I want to mention here, since we're talking about the ace, the rank of a card is going
to be the number on the card.
But then you have cards with pictures like the Jack the Queen, the the King and the ace.
These are all stronger than any other number.
So the way it works is if you want to list the ranks from highest to lowest, then Ace will be the strongest
rank.
And then King Queen Jack.
And then the numbers, ten, nine, all the way down to two.
So this is how ranks work.
So if you have an ace of hearts, for example, and the number ten, then the ace of hearts is the winner
because Ace is a stronger rank than the number ten.
OK, so to summarize, it's very easy if you have two cards.
These two cards have different strengths.
The card with the stronger rank is overall stronger.
If you have two cards with the same rank, then the stronger card is the card with the stronger suit
and the stronger suit basically is defined by the rules I just mentioned.
Spades is stronger than hearts.
Hearts are stronger than diamonds, and then diamonds is stronger than clubs.
So let's look back at the screen and look at this round here and see who wins this round.
So if we look at all the cards on the screen, it's very obvious that the strongest card on the screen
is the ace of spades that Bob has.
And this is why Bob is going to win this round.
So after this first round, Bob's score is going to be one.
Alice and Adam are going to be zero.
Let's play another round.
So Adam draws two cars, he gets four of clubs, and then the king of hearts, Alice gets the nine of
hearts and the two of spades, Bob gets the king of clubs and the king of diamonds.
Now we look at all the cards again and see which player has the strongest card.
Of course, if you only look at the ranks, the highest rank in this round is the king.
But we have three kings, Bob has two kings, and then Adam has one king.
So since we have three cars of the same rank, we are going to compare suits so hearts, clubs and diamonds,
the strongest suit here is hearts.
So this round goes to Adam and that's why Adam gets a point.
So the total score after two rounds is Bob one, Alice zero and Adam one.
So this is how you play this game.
You keep playing these rounds until you can't play any more rounds.
And that will happen when you don't have enough cards in the pile to support another round.
So if you have less than six cards in the pile, then you can't really play another round.
So that's when the game ends.
And the player with the highest score is the winner of the whole game.
So now I guess you're pretty much ready to start working on the project now that you understand how
this game is played, what the rules of the game are and how to determine the strongest cards in around,
OK.
I hope that was clear.
And I'll see you in the next video.